I didn't know what I wanted to do.
And so I was kind of late in thinking about graduate school.
I had a professor of foreign management named Joe Campbell.
And Joe Campbell.
But this was Campbell.
And he had taken a liking to me and taken me under his wing.
And I was talking to him one day.
And he said, do you want to go to graduate school?
He said, he had a PhD from Cornell.
He said, I've got some good friends at Purdue.
I can get you an assistantship there.
Or he said, I'll see if I can get you an assistantship.
So I said, fine.
And sure enough, he got me an assistantship, of course.
Then when Korean War broke out, I didn't know what I was going to do or what to do.
whether I should go ahead or whether to wait to be called or what.
It was obvious that they didn't need green second lieutenants.
They needed experienced people.
So I decided to go on to Purdue and then just kept going and was able to finish all the coursework and finish my dissertation before I got called.
But let me back up.
There was something I wanted to say.
Oh, professors who made an influence.
Yes.
I had a professor, Robertson, taught animal nutrition.
In the first class period, he said, it is essential if you are going to be a professional, if you're going to be an educated professional, that you be able to write well.
And he said, I am going to grade in this course as much on your writing as on the content, your subject.
George Robertson.
He went from here to LSU and had been very active in Phi Kappa Phi.
But anyway, that was one of the professors.
And Professor Allen told me to go into the advanced English literature courses.
There were people like that that made an influence.
Describe registration for courses at that era.
Terrible.
What an ordeal.
You had to go to Sabisa Hall and the lines were interminable.
You had to get your cards and then go to the desk and see if there was space in the classes.
Although I never had any problem not being able to get the courses I needed.
It was just the problem of the standing in line, interminable lines.
Did it also, though, ensure that the students took pretty well what they needed to take?
Oh yes, particularly the first two years we had block courses.
And so if you were in a degree program you took those.
Was there a key assistant or associate dean in agriculture then that was the one you checked with before you left like R.C.
Potts would be later?
I'm sure it was, but I don't remember.
My recollection is that we had much less freedom
that the course structure was more rigid and particularly the first two years were just automatic.
Important extracurricular events, groups, activities, you were in town hall and so forth.
What were the other
high visibility, the band certainly.
What did you and your buddies think of the band?
Oh, well, I think it was a love-hate relationship.
We were proud of them, and I'd say extremely proud of them.
But on the other hand, we couldn't stand them as individuals.
I think they had a cockiness about them that kind of set them apart.
Now, they lived as an outfit.
Yes.
And did they participate in other activities like all the other outfits did?
Or did they excuse themselves?
Were they in intramurals?
Oh, yes, they were in intramurals.
No, they, they were,
They were just regular corps members and they, that was an additional responsibility they had.
What about singing cadets?
Yeah.
Were they, and were they respected?
Oh yes, yes.
And I don't think, of course there were fewer of them.
I don't recall any kind of,
feeling that they were cocky or I think they were just regular.
How prestigious was it to be a yell eater then?
Oh, extremely.
Now, the most prestigious student position was corps commander?
Well, I'm not sure.
Head yell eater would be right up there.
Because there was no student body president.
No, no, oh no.
No, everything was just the, well, each class had its officers.
Okay.
And then the corps had its officers, but the corps commander was that and the student body president.
As far as you were aware, what were the key pathways to becoming corps commander?
Were they selected on their merits?
As far as I could tell, they were.
I never, I wasn't aware of any politics or anything of that nature.
Were you aware that secret fraternities existed?
Well, I always heard about them, but,
I never saw any direct evidence, never aware of it.
And I'm still not aware of any.
Did you hear of the names of the organization?
What was it?
True Texans, was that one?
TTs.
I just never, you know, you would hear, but I never heard any.
Any really rumors that I put any faith into?
Just vague references occasionally, but even there a very few times.
Now, when anybody explored the steam tunnels, what was the purpose of going into the steam tunnels?
Oh, all kinds of things.
I mean, go.
First place just to go in the steam tunnel was an activity.
And where did they extend?
Oh all over the campus.
Any building with heat or any building with heat had them.
What were their dimensions?
Oh you could walk in them.
Standing up?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
In fact probably oh I'd say eight feet high by maybe six feet wide.
What kind of light?
Well, as I recall, we used to have to take flashlights, but I also recall seeing lights too.
They were probably locked by the end of my freshman year because I just don't remember any specific acts.
I just remember being in them.
And then painting the water tower, of course, was a big, big.
Oh, talk about that.
You had to put your outfit, you had to get your outfit insignia up there on the water tower.
And then, of course, that was a big deal.
Now, how did one get up the water tower?
Climbed.
How far up was the bottom rung of the ladder?
I don't remember.
We never did it.
Oh, you didn't?
No, but different groups would.
I mean there were always, new insignia were always appearing up there.
And I hope no sad stories of someone falling off.
I don't remember any, vaguely remember people being caught, but I don't remember any.
And this is the water tower at Northgate.
I was the only one at that time.
And in terms of travel, even when you were a senior, the bus and the train and hitchhiking, automobiles and hitchhiking.
Well by the time I was a senior I had enough friends and acquaintances with cars that weren't doing any hitchhiking.
But the trains were frequent.
Oh yeah.
As late as 1955 we had.
I think five trains a day out of here each way.
Was there a landing strip yet at where Easterwood is now?
Yeah.
But no commercial?
I don't remember any commercial service.
Student indulgences.
What did, did people smoke?
Oh yeah, smoking was widespread.
In the dorms?
Yes.
Could you smoke in your room?
What were the popular brands?
I don't remember.
I mean Camels, Lucky Strike.
That was in the day before Marlboro and those, I'd say Camels and Lucky Strike.
Were you a smoker?
No.
Did anybody tease you for not being?
Cigars?
Did anybody smoke cigars?
Oh, when was it?
There was one occasion when we smoked cigars.
What was it?
Baseball games.
What, you mean a kind of celebration?
No, it was the custom to do it.
Oh.
Golly, I can't remember.
May have been baseball games.
Pipes?
I don't remember.
Very few pipes.
Chewing tobacco or snuff?
My impression, not as much as today.
But I just may not have noticed it.
In my experience, that was, chewing tobacco and snuff was considered country.
Yeah.
Is that?
Did you and your buddies, had you even heard the terminology of today's drugs?
No.
I hadn't, I hadn't either.
And what about alcohol?
Was Whiskey Bridge?
Yeah.
Well, camp was supposed to be dry, but I had slept there.
And, you know, on this today of human rights, you can't conceive of what they did.
I mean, they'd search your room for whiskey.
Where did people hide whiskey or beer in there?
In their foot lockers.
Or in their closet.
And we had a chest of drawers in the room.
Did any of that ever get dropped in the wall, I wonder?
No, I don't remember that.
It was just the boards that I remember.
Now, no whiskey illegally sold in this county.
Did you ever hear of a bootlegger in Brazos County?
Oh, heard of them, but.
Where were they supposed to be?
I don't know.
I just learned and lost.
Where could beer be bought?
I don't remember.
Uncle Ed's?
Since I don't or didn't drink, I just didn't pay attention to that.
There you see.
Notable campus personalities.
All right, you go to summer camp to San Antonio.
Did you go to summer camp any other time?
That's the one summer.
All right.
Describe then what it was like to be a senior to arrive.
That would have been the fall of 40?
49.
Well, it was a great feeling to reach the pinnacle.
Have your boots and.
Where'd you get your boots?
I got them used.
How much did they cost?
A hundred dollars as I recall.
Did they fit?
Pretty well.
Although I had ridden horseback so much that my calves were developed, maybe a little overdeveloped, and they were a little tight in the calf.
That was the main problem.
How did you feel when you put them on ceremoniously the first time?
Top of the world.
Now that would have been that final review as a junior?
Yes, yes.
All right, describe the routine as a junior of final review.
It was where and you all did.
Well, it was on the drill field where it is today.
We passed in review with the graduating seniors
in command and then we dismissed and seniors went to rooms and got their boots and came back and freshmen tore off their fish stripes and our juniors had uniforms with their stripes on them and so forth.
And about how long a break was that?
Oh, 30 to 45 minutes.
Do you remember who the reviewing officer was?
Was anybody of any great significance?
When I graduated, Omar Bradley.
I don't remember my junior year, but Omar Bradley was
commissioning speaker my senior year.
What did you people think of him?
Oh, he stood in awe.
He was a man like that.
Was there anything special he said about Aggies or A&M?
I don't remember.
All right, so you put on those senior boots officially for the first time.
Was there anybody special that was here for you then that day?
Well my parents were here.
They came?
She was supposed to have been.
We had torrential rains and she got unable to come.
Where did you all meet?
Describe that.
She was a student at Huntsville, Sam Houston.
I had a fellow in my outfit, a classmate, who kept telling me I got just the girl for you, I got just the girl for you.
I didn't trust his judgment that well.
Finally, in my junior year, he talked me into going over to Huntsville, or Line 8.
That's where it started.
Now, did you have wheels then?
No, he had a car.
I never did have a car.
I brought my mother's car back two or three times.
And she was what year when you met her in school?
Same.
You were both juniors, majoring in?
She was majoring in education.
Education.
And where did you all go on the first date?
Was it a movie or a dance?
Did we eat at the Raven?
We went to a movie, I think.
I think we ate at the Raven in the cafe on the square.
It used to be famous.
Then after that first date, did you give that buddy any kind of evaluation of his judgment?
Yeah, yeah.
I was smitten.
It was love at first sight.
And how often did you then see her?
Well, the problem was she had some others that she .
So I was playing second or third fiddle.
When did this become mutually serious?
She'll have to answer that.
In fact, she followed one of them to Nashville, Tennessee, the summer after she graduated.
So it was after that, and I guess she changed her mind then.
Okay, what did you do the summer before your senior year?
That was summer camp.
Oh, that's the summer camp.
That was summer camp between your junior and senior year.
All right, so you arrive, describe being a senior at Texas A&M in 1949.
Well, you're kind of the king of the walk.
What was the great, great feeling?
What made it great?
Well, you'd come through all the trials, get there, and you'd arrived.
I guess...
thing about the core experience was that it proved to me that I could survive anything.
About what was the survival rate of your freshman class?
About a third.
I mean the attrition was just incredible.
Of those, how many would you guess left for academic reasons compared to how many who left for other reasons?
That would be a guess.
I'd say half and half.
Because academics was a significant reason for dropping out.
And I think one of the reasons for that was because it was so easy to be admitted then.
There really weren't any admission requirements, and so some of the people that were admitted just didn't have the ability.
Yeah, yeah.
As a senior then, you had someone to clean your room.
No, because we didn't have any freshmen.
See, the freshmen were still out at the annex.
Oh, that's right.
No, as I say, we were the only class, or at least the first class, I guess first class.
to be the low man on the totem pole two years in a row, but that continued throughout.
Was a paddle used in your outfit when you were a senior?
Yes.
Did you do anything to prevent it?
No.
And in your squadron, what position did you have?
I was... I've forgotten.
I was a major on...
And was Gilchrist still the president?
No.
Tom Harrington may have been.
Harrington, okay.
Did you all see much of him?
Did you have any impression of him?
Yes, he was very visible.
What did you all think of him?
My impression was favorable.
I think everybody felt good about it.
What did y'all think was special about Texas A&M?
Why all this pride?
I guess this sense of being a big fraternity, big brotherhood,
pride in achievement, that we could survive and finish, and feeling that there was value in an A&M degree.
Now at this point, what did you think your career goal was when you were a senior?
I wasn't sure.
What were you thinking of them?
Well, Dad had pretty well taught me out of coming back
into production agriculture.
Why?
Well, he was probably ahead of his time, could see the problems.
In other words, it was, this was going to be tough.
He graduated from A&M in 26.
His mother was killed in a car wreck in 28.
So he had inherited his land free and clear.
And he was in good shape going into the Depression.
But that made such a lasting impression on him.
He
They couldn't find, well, there was no market for anything.
And he heard that they were buying hogs in Lareda, which is 125 miles away, no paved roads.
He has a little Model T truck and he takes hogs to Lareda to sell.
My mother always raised turkeys and a few turkeys, not commercially.
But he took her turkeys and sold them door to door and peddled them in Corpus.
He started night classes at Corpus to
finish up pre-med requirements, thinking that he'd go into medicine.
And so that experience, and then during the thirties he was a leader.
in the agricultural program, went to Washington two or three times, served on the state land use planning committee that was looking at the problems of agricultural land and what to do with the surpluses we had, so forth.
So, he was probably very realistic in terms of his concern for the future.
All right, then if not- Now he did well.
He did very well.
But my poor brothers had terrible time.
And he- Drought and- He went into production.
Yes.
All right, then if you weren't going to go into production agriculture, what were you, what other options were you thinking about?
Well, that's when I started thinking about the academics or maybe banking, some sort of business, agribusiness.
Did you have anybody here, whether they knew it or not, that was a kind of a role model for you?
Well, I say Joe Campbell had taken me under his wing, and I felt I was very grateful for that.
I mean, he took a personal interest in me, and I felt that.
Yeah, there were any number of people here that I respected and looked up to.
Dean Shepardson was a, I don't know how to say it, a pretty outspoken kind of a man who wasn't particularly democratic, I mean diplomatic, but respected him.
Any number of people.
Jack Miller was on the faculty at that time, was the kind of person that I would have looked up to.
Did anybody give you any advice of some options not to consider?
No.
Okay.
I think I felt that options are wide open.
And you were making good grades.
Yes.
I wasn't valedictorian, but I had a good GPR.
Did you all keep up with your GPR as much then as students do now?
Oh, yeah.
Did you?
I and my buddies did not.
We didn't, we couldn't have set a three-point or a two-point.
No, that's always been important here.
But I took as many as 21 hours a semester.
Sure.
These people now talk about 12 hours.
They think that's a full-time load.
Let's talk about what is about Aggie's spirit and so forth.
Do you remember going to your first Silver Taps?
Yes.
What was it?
I don't think I knew the person, or at least knew him well, but in those days you knew just about everybody, small.
It was tremendously impressive, walking over there silently, campus blacked out, and then hearing the silver taps, the taps played, and then just as
Quietly walking back, it was very impressive.
Was there ever any fun and games in the dormitory after Silver Taps?
No.
Oh no, it was a very solemn.
I would have been dumbfounded if you had any.
It made, it just made you aware of your mortality.
Muster, did you go to Muster?
I don't think Muster was as big a deal then as it is today.
No, I don't either.
We had Muster.
Where?
I guess Guyon Hall, or maybe the Assembly Hall, I don't remember.
Assembly Hall was torn down in 40, probably 47.
But Guyon Hall, I imagine.
But you don't remember it being a compulsory?
No, no.
I mean, we had it, but it wasn't a,
Wasn't a big to-do over it, like today.
All right.
Bonfire.
Go back to your freshman year, if you can.
Describe bonfire activities.
Well, we started out, of course, cutting the logs.
Where?
Remember how far away it was?
It wasn't close.
And again, since I didn't have a vehicle, it's hard to remember.
I'm very allergic to poison oak.
So probably don't need to say more about that.
But we had axes and we cut with axes and nobody had a chainsaw.
You know what a chainsaw was.
And everything was cut by axe and hauled out by, hauled to the trucks by, I mean carried to the trucks, stacked on the trucks.
Beginning about when in the fall?
I don't remember exactly, but I would say around the first of October.
So six weeks or so.
And basically on weekends.
I don't remember going out during the week.
And you were in a cutting crew?
Oh, yes.
I think everybody was.
We rotated.
Did you all ever use cross cut saws?
Yes, but I just remember axes.
And they were hauled back in trucks.
Where did those trucks come from?
I don't know.
I want to say some of them might have been military trucks.
I think they were.
Did the cutting crew also load, or was that a different group?
We weren't that specialized.
Everybody pitched in.
Where was Bonfire held?
On the drill field.
And do you remember how many stacks, huh?
Well, just one.
Okay.
Teepee style.
Yeah, teepee style.
And do you remember any feeling about bonfire then?
Oh, yeah.
I was thrilled to see it go up after all that hard work.
But it was, there was some interesting
stories there, and I don't know whether it's true or not, but there's a story about this old Bohemian couple that came up and, that's my outhouse up there.
That was in the days when they used to steal the outhouse.